doc(spec): add subcommands to Notation plugin spec (#555)
notaryproject/notation: specs/commandline/plugin.md

  list, ls
```

### notation plugin install

```text

> Installs a plugin

Reviewer: I like this command but have some questions

1. How will install/uninstall work aka whats your vision for this commands? Will it allow execution of custom steps which might be required for setup/cleanup?
2. what should be the format of plugin package?
3. IMO user doesn't needs to specify plugin name, we can extract it using [plugin metada](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/plugin-extensibility.md#plugin-metadata) command

Author: Hey @priteshbandi happy to share my thoughts.

1. The Install subcommand would create the necessary directory under the default plugin path and extract/move the plugin to the directory. The delete subcommand would remove the plugin from the directory. If there's more than needs to happen, please lmk.
2. By format of the plugin package do you mean is compressed or not? I was planning to support both formats and optionally expand the compressed version if needed and move the file into the plugin directory.
3. That's a great idea, is that metadata extractable from the executable?

Reviewer: 1. IMO just providing copy and delete plugin file would be a good start; I was thinking about following enhancemenets and they can be be future work.
    1. add pre-install/post-install(similar for uninstall) script support since plugin might want to perform setup/cleanup.
    2. On install, verifying signature of plugin and displaying its data to user. This will help user verify authenticity and integrity of plugin.
2. yes, by format I meant compressed or not.
3. Yes we/notation should be able to call that command on the executable.

Author: @priteshbandi since the `get-plugin-metadata` subcommand can get the plugin-name I agree that the user shouldn't have to specify the plugin-name. @yizha1 and @shizhMSFT what do you think?

Reviewer 2: @Duffney @priteshbandi I like the idea of getting the plugin name from metadata, so that users don't need to specify it. We need to consider the output of installation command, so that users know the plugin name and other information as well.

Some questions:
- How do we know if two plugin files with different names are the same plugin? What is the desired behavior if users install the same plugin multiple times?
- Users install the same plugin but with a higher version, what is the desired behavior?

Author: Here are my thoughts:

- Assuming the plugin naming standard of `notation-plugin-name` is followed you can use a string parser to get the plugin name from the binary and then use the `get-metadata` function to return the plugin details and compare the values. Imo if the user installs the same plugin multiple times the desired behavior should be to have the new plugin overwrite\replace the existing plugin.
- If the user installs the same plugin, the plugin version should be compared then displayed to the user with a prompt confirming they wish to overwrite the existing plugin.

Usage:

>   notation plugin install --name <plugin name> --plugin-package <plugin package> [flags]

Reviewer 3: How about
```suggestion
  notation plugin install [--name <plugin name>] [flags] <plugin package> 
```

Reviewer 3: Later we can have
```console
$ notation plugin install notation-example-foo.tgz
The NEW plugin `example-foo` will be installed.
Do you want to continue? [y/N] y
The plugin `example-foo` is successfully installed.
$ notation plugin install --name example-bar notation-example-bar.tgz
The plugin `example-bar` is successfully installed.
$ notation plugin install --name example-hello notation-example-foo.tgz
Error: notation-example-foo.tgz: example-hello not found
```

Author: I like it, that makes a lot of sense. +100

Flags:

>   -n, --name           string   name of the plugin

Reviewer 4: We may don't need the name of the plugin because the name is the required field of `get-plugin-metadata` plugin command. [plugin spec](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/plugin-extensibility.md#plugin-metadata)
Also, the name of the directory for storing the plugin should be the same with the name returned by `get-plugin-metadata` command, so the user cannot change the name and there is no need to set it.

Reviewer 3: The `--name` flag is optional. It is possible that the plugin in the package is not the intended plugin. Having `--name` adds an additional assurance.

See also https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/pull/555#discussion_r1108298855

Author: The [plugin extensibility](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/plugin-extensibility.md#plugin-lifecycle-management) spec lays out a naming standard for the plugin folder and the binary, will notation load the plugin if it doesn't follow the naming convention?

Author: Resolving based on the Outdated label, but please feel free to start a new thread or reopen if desired. :)

>   -n, --name           string   name of the plugin

Reviewer 3: nit: spacing
```suggestion
  -n, --name string             name of the plugin
```

  -p, --plugin-package string   path to the plugin package
  -h, --help                    help for install

Aliases:
  install, add
```

### notation plugin remove 

```text
Removes a plugin

Usage:

>   notation plugin remove <plugin name> [flags]

Reviewer 3: nit: flags comes before the arguments.
```suggestion
  notation plugin remove [flags] <plugin name>
```

Flags:
  -h, --help          help for remove

Aliases:

>   remove, rm

Reviewer 3: How about adding `uninstall` to the aliases?

Author: I'm not sure how many aliases are too many, but I added uninstall and delete. :)

```

## Usage

### Install a plugin

```shell

> notation plugin install --name <plugin name> --plugin-package <plugin package>

Reviewer 3: If the `--name` option does not present, we need to prompt the user if the plugin is intended.

Author: Resolving per request of @yizha1, please add additional comments if you disagree or have questions with my previous response.

Reviewer: Instead of prompting should we just emit the plugin name ?

Author: I agree with @priteshbandi. Having the user type `--name pluginName` validate the plugin adds enough friction that it's a deterrent which reduces the chances that it'll be used for validation. 

Emitting the plugin name might be a better option until it adds more value. For example, if the plugin-name provided a list of trusted plugins you could select from and then the CLI tool downloads and installs it for you.

Author: I'll update the spec to emit the `--name` option.

> notation plugin install --name <plugin name> --plugin-package <plugin package>

Reviewer 2: Since `--name` is optional, the main usage example should be the one without the `--name` flag. 
We can add a new usage that for some users know the exact plugin name, and they want to confirm it during installation.

```

> Unpon successful execution, the plugins directory is created under the default plugin directory if it does not exist, and the plugin package is extracted to the plugins directory. The plugin installation is then verified. If the verification fails, the plugin is removed from the plugins directory and an error is returned. 

Reviewer: What are the package formats we are planning to support? .zip?

Author: I was thinking `.zip`, `.tar.gz`, `.exe` and the non-extension binary for Darwin and Linux. If the plugin is compressed, only the binary would be extracted and moved to the plugin directory. What are some of the sharp edges you've run into before? I have a prototype working that extracts zip and tar, but I'm certain I haven't tested all the use cases. :)

Reviewer: Since `.zip` and `.tar.gz` specification are ambiguous/open, their implementations often suffers from security issues( see [cves](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=unzip)), here are some the high level issues that I can think of
1. What if there are more than one files(multiple plugins, unrelated files, etc) inside zip, should we copy everything? 
2. What if zip is a [zip bomb](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zip_bomb) ? 
3. What if unzipping tries to write outside the designated pugin folder ([zip slip](https://security.snyk.io/research/zip-slip-vulnerability))?
4. Should we support symlinks in zip, (see [symlink-vulnerability]( https://effortlesssecurity.in/2020/08/05/zip-symlink-vulnerability/))?

Author: I see, it's not as simple as it appears. Starting with the .exe and binary for Darwin and Linux sounds good to me. :)

Reviewer 3: @priteshbandi I can answer a few.

> What if there are more than one files(multiple plugins, unrelated files, etc) inside zip, should we copy everything?

Yes, we actually should. It may contain license files, config files for global configs, and other plugin assets.

> What if zip is a [zip bomb](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zip_bomb) ?

We can limit the max plugin size.

> What if unzipping tries to write outside the designated pugin folder ([zip slip](https://security.snyk.io/research/zip-slip-vulnerability))?

We can restrict that. Actually, `oras` does the same restriction.

> Should we support symlinks in zip, (see [symlink-vulnerability](https://effortlesssecurity.in/2020/08/05/zip-symlink-vulnerability/))?

No, we should not. Symlinks and hard links cause more problem than benefits. Actually, we should support extracting regular files within a flat folder only.

  list, ls
```

### notation plugin install

```text
Installs a plugin

Usage:
  notation plugin install [flags] <plugin path>

Flags:
  -h, --help                    help for install

Aliases:
  install, add
```

### notation plugin remove 

```text
Removes a plugin

Usage:
  notation plugin remove [flags] <plugin name>

Flags:
  -h, --help          help for remove

Aliases:
  remove, rm, uninstall, delete
```

## Usage

### Install a plugin

```shell
notation plugin install <plugin path>
```

> Upon successful execution, the plugin is moved to plugins directory. If the plugin directory does not exist, it will be created. The plugin installation is then verified and if the verification fails, the plugin is removed from the plugins directory and an error is returned. When an existing plugin is detected, the versions are compared and if the existing plugin is a lower version then it is replaced by the newer version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon successful execution, the plugin is moved to plugins directory and name+version of plugin is displayed. If the plugin directory does not exist, it will be created. When an existing plugin is detected, the versions are compared and if the existing plugin is a lower version then it is replaced by the newer version.
```

How can customer lower the version, probably we should add --force command ?

Author: Thank you for the feedback and suggestion, I updated the install description and added a `--force` flag to the spec. :)

  list, ls
```

### notation plugin install

```text
Installs a plugin

Usage:
  notation plugin install [flags] <plugin path>

Flags:
  -h, --help                    help for install
  -f, --force                   force the installation of a plugin

Aliases:
  install, add
```

### notation plugin remove 

```text
Removes a plugin

Usage:
  notation plugin remove [flags] <plugin name>

Flags:
  -h, --help          help for remove

Aliases:
  remove, rm, uninstall, delete
```

## Usage

### Install a plugin

```shell
notation plugin install <plugin path>
```

> Upon successful execution, the plugin is moved to plugins directory and name+version of plugin is displayed. If the plugin directory does not exist, it will be created. When an existing plugin is detected, the versions are compared and if the existing plugin is a lower version then it is replaced by the newer version.

Reviewer 3: It would be natural to do `copy` instead of `move`.
```suggestion
Upon successful execution, the plugin is copied to plugins directory and name+version of plugin is displayed. If the plugin directory does not exist, it will be created. When an existing plugin is detected, the versions are compared and if the existing plugin is a lower version then it is replaced by the newer version.
```
